All right, in this lesson, I'll introduce you to another function from the View Library called reactive.
Reactive works very similarly to how RAF does, but it is built and optimized specifically for objects.
So we can only use the reactive function with objects.
We cannot use it with primitive values like strings or numbers.
So let's do a quick review on why the value development team wraps everything in an object with a value
property whenever we provide an argument to the ref function.
So if we take a simple value like let's say a number of five or a string like Hello, these are what
are called primitive values in JavaScript.
They are simple data types, which means they are not objects.
And when I say they are not objects, that means that they do not have properties, they do not have
methods.
They are a much more lightweight context.
So you might be curious if a string like Hello does not have methods.
How can we call a method like two uppercase on a string in JavaScript?
Well, behind the scenes, what this syntax actually does is it refers to a separate string object that
is available in JavaScript.
That is a totally different idea from a string primitive.
It creates that object.
It calls the two upper case method on it.
Then it takes that return value and it throws that string object out of memory and returns it to you,
right?
So it's kind of an illusion because when we do a method like this, it's actually processing that request
to a totally separate idea within the JavaScript language.
But if we return back to the basics, if we look at a value like five or Hello, these are simple primitive
data types that do not have more complex technical infrastructure around them, like methods or properties,
which of course is problematic because if you want to build out some kind of functionality that's going
to keep track of reactivity, keeping track of if something changes or doesn't change, and relaying
that message to other objects in our program, we need the idea of methods and we need the idea of object
state.
We need to keep track of some data that is changing over time.
That is why we use objects in an object oriented programming language, but yet we don't have that functionality
with these simple data pips.
So what the new development team does, of course, is they take whatever value we give to the ref function
and they say, okay, I'm going to keep track of whatever value gave these setters hello.
And then I'm going to add on all of these additional methods for reactivity.
So you may have a method for reactivity, you may have another method for reactivity, whatever are
the internal details and implementations that they need in order to keep track of this value changing.
They add that on top, so they take an object and they wrap your core value and they are able to add
on all of these additional functionalities by making it an object, right?
That's why we always have this consistent interface where we invoke the ref function, we give it a
value, and then we access that value through the value property on the object that the function returns
back to us.
Now you'll notice in the previous lesson we did this approach with an actual JavaScript object, right?
And the results were the exact same.
We had to access the value property in order to get that object and then access its internal property
like name.
But in comparison, if we start with a basic object like imagine we have an object with the value we
have above like name Boris.
Right, this object is a JavaScript object, so it already supports the ability to add methods and add
behavior and add state.
Right.
It's a regular object.
It's a more complex data type compared to a simple primitive like a number or a strength.
So the reactive function is the view development team recognizing that rather than wrapping this whole
thing up in a value property like so right and then adding all of this additional logic outside wrapped
in its own higher level object instead of doing what we just did in the previous lesson with our ref
functions that are making it more complex, what they said is, Hey, if you already have this object
with a name property of Boris, why don't we add all of this reactive functions or reactive methods
to be more specific inside here, because we already have the object that we need to be able to add
and inject that extra behavior in.
And the advantage of this is that it spares the need to use that value property because they can just
inject that functionality into your plane JavaScript object.
It has the support, the foundation, the infrastructure to enable that kind of behavior.
So that is exactly what reactive it gives us.
The reactive function which I'm going to import right here, is only meant to be used with objects because
that is the only type of data, structure or object that supports this kind of behavior.
So what I'm going to do here is instead of using ref, I'm going to change this to reactive.
And again, reactive can only support objects that we never want to provide a string or a boolean or
a number or anything like that to reactive.
We only want to provide an object.
And of course the advantage of this approach is whenever we are referencing person moving forward,
it's still going to be a reactive object, it's still going to have the same idea.
However, we can access the normal properties that we had.
Defined directly on that object.
So we no longer need to do person, dot value, dot name.
We can shrink this to just person dot name, right?
So person is going to be our reactive object, but somewhere in it it's still going to have our original
name property that we defined, right?
So now if I go here and I output the value of title and then right here, I'm also going to remove the
value because if I want to overwrite the name property, I do it the regular way I do in JavaScript.
Now, if I run this file, you're going to see we're going to have the same result we wanted, which
is we have a computed function that recalculate the string whenever the value of the name property on
person changes.
So we change that from Boris to Peter and the computed property changed immediately as a result.
But the best part about this design is we don't have to get that granular or that deep with that value
property.
So it's a little bit of a more elegant syntax.
And that is everything there is to cover in this lesson.
We talked about the reactive function, which is a sibling to the RAF function.
The reactive function is optimized specifically for JavaScript objects, and that's the only type of
data that you want to use it with.
If you have a primitive value, like a number or a string or a boolean, you should continue using RAF
and you must access that property using the value property on the reactive object.
In comparison with the reactive function, it only accepts an object as its argument and once you provide
it that you can still access your original properties normally.
But Vue will keep track of their reactivity, as we did right here.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.